Hello and welcome to a brand new section on iOS 7 async a wait in this section or going to go through
the process of learning how async a way it works what exactly it is and where it's going to fit into
what we know about node.
All ready now to kick things off.
A single weight is a feature that is not available in all versions of Node.
You have to be using the seven point six or greater.
So if you are on the 7.
Just make sure you are on 7.6 or greater.
But if we go over to node j s dot org you're going to see that B is actually out so we can go ahead
and just upgrade to V8.
Right now it's perfectly fine and there's a newer version you can go ahead and grab that as well as
long as it's a 7.6 or up.
So 6.10 it's not going to have the syntax that we're about to dive into.
Now before we actually use async away we're going to go ahead and run through an example that just uses
promises.
So we're going to be using techniques we already know to set up a little example project.
Now when people hear about async away they think that right away they need to forget everything they
know about callbacks and promises and that is not true.
Eysenck weight is not a third option.
It is more like an enhancement for promises.
So we're going to go through an example using just regular old promises things you already know how
to do then we're going to see how async a weight can enhance that code.
So to kick things off we do need a place to put all of this.
I'm going to make a brand new project on my desktop a sink away at we can crack that open in our editor
and make sure to crack it open in your terminal as well.
Perfect.
Now the goal here is to just make a very very simple project.
We're not going to need any node modules for this one.
And we are just going to need a single file.
This file can set in the root of the project and we'll just call it app promises.
It s this is going to be the version of our application that just uses promises.
Now before we go any further I do want to give you a quick idea as to what the section is going to look
like.
We're going to go through three distinct things.
First up thing one we are going to create a very contrived example and this is going to allow us to
learn how to use a sink a weight without a lot of overhead or baggage.
So we're going to be creating constants like users which would just be an array of objects and constants
like grades.
Also an array of objects.
And this is going to be what a database would look like.
Obviously there is nothing asynchronous about accessing some property from an array.
So we're going to go ahead and create some new promises to turn a synchronous process into an asynchronous
one to the first project is not very real world but it is going to be a great way to learn the new syntax.
Then we're going to move on to another little project where you're going to be required to make two
actual API calls to API.
I picked out those will be asynchronous and will use async await there to wrap things up.
We're going to add a little bit of async awake code back into the to do API.
So to kick things off we're going to go through this very contrived example and we can start by creating
a few users to work with each user object is going to have a few properties.
We'll start off with an id just like they would have inside of a real database.
I'm going to give this one an idea of one will also have a name a string name for the user.
I want to call the first one Andrew and then we're going to move on to the final property a school ID
and ID that will change as the students switches from one school to another.
We can just make up another ID for this one.
I'm going to go ahead and start at 1 0 1.
Now that we have that user number one created Let's go ahead and clone him.
I'm going to copy Tasik comma and paste it and we'll create just one more user.
For this example this one will have an idea of two will change the name from Andrew over to something
like Jessica.
And we'll give her a school ID of nine nine nine.
Perfect.
Now that we have some users in place we're going to create our first of three functions will be building
in this video.
This one is called Konst.
Get user it is going to take the ID of the user and it is going to find that user and return the user
object.
So if the ID is one I'm going to get this object back if it's I'm going to get this object back if it's
theory or some other ID that doesn't exist.
I'm going to actually have an error thrown in.
So this is going to return a promise I'll resolve if the ID is a match with one of the users I'll reject.
If it's not now as I mentioned this is a contrived example.
So we're going to be creating new promises explicitly I'm going to create a new promise.
Passing in that promise function which as you remember gets called with resolve and reject.
Then we're going to go ahead and add a little bit of logic in here.
The first thing we need to do is try to find a match and I'm going to use the array find method to get
that done.
We'll create a cost user to store the match.
Then we'll set it equal to users ADOT find passing in our function.
Now this function gets called one time for every item in the array it's an array of users.
So we can call the individual item user and if we return true it is going to consider that a match.
It'll stop and it will set that object on it.
User if we return false it'll continue on through the array and if none are a match undefined will be
the value for users right here where it is going to return user ID checking if it equals the ID passed
in.
Now we have a great candidate for the shorthand syntax here.
We just have an arrow function that returns some value so we can just provide the value right here and
have it be implicitly returned.
Here we have the exact same functionality.
Now before we go ahead and use it let's go ahead and actually call resolve or reject.
If there is a user We're going to do one thing.
If there's not a user that's fine.
We're just going to do something else.
Double-O.
Be Calling reject at up above.
We'll be calling.
Resolve never resolve is just going to have the user passed in and for object we can come up with an
error message that helps the user figure out what went wrong on able to find user with ID of that period.
And we'll put the idea right here inside of the template string.
I'm going to reference ID.
This is the exact value that was passed in up above.
Now before we go ahead and actually run this let's just use it get user real quick I'm going to call
get user with an ID of two which should return.
Jessica I'll add on then and catch inside of catch we can catch that error.
We're just going to get the error and log it out.
Console log.
Perfect.
Then we can set up our then call back inside of then we're going to get access to the user.
And for now we'll just lock it out.
Now to actually run this we're going to head over into the terminal and make sure we do get the expected
results.
I'm going to be using node mon to get that done.
Now if you just updated node it also updated NPM and in the end of the day what that means is that you
no longer have access to those global modules.
So you might need to rerun NPM install the gnomon before you can use the gnomon command right here.
I'm going to use gnomon running.
The app promises J.S. file and right here we have our output we have Jessica printing with the school
idea of 9 9 9 and the idea of 2 that is because I passed two in right here.
If I switch this out for one I should see Andrew I do indeed see Andrew.
And finally let's go ahead and pass in an idea that doesn't exist like 21 right here.
I do get the message.
Unable to find user with ID of twenty one.
So this is the first of three that we're going to be building.
Let's go ahead and knock out the other two.
Real quick.
This will set us up to actually explore the async await syntax contest.
Get grades get grades is going to be very similar to get users are the ones that have working with the
users or it is going to work with the Grae's array.
Now we don't have any grades set up so let's go ahead and set some up right here.
We're going to go ahead and create a few grades.
First up let's create a grade with an idea of 1.
Now this one is going to be attached to Andrew.
So we'll go ahead and use the school ID to do that school ID the school ID.
In this case for andere is 101 then down below.
We're going to put in the actual grade.
In this case I'll go ahead and give myself an 86.
This is grade 1.
Let's go ahead and create three more real quick.
I'm going to copy it.
Toss in a comma and paste it two times.
This one is going to have an idea of two we can associate this one with Jessica.
So we'll give her the school ID value of nine nine nine just like I have above.
And then finally she's real smart so we'll give her a 100.
Finally of three will leave this one associated with Andrew.
And down below will give him a grade of an 80.
Did a little worse this time around.
So we have some grades in place and the goal is to return all of the grades for a particular student
based off of their school I.D..
So if I pass in 101 I would expect an array to come back with this object.
And with this object if I pass in 9 9 9 I would expect an array to come back with this one.
And if I pass in a value like fifty five there are going to be no grades for that student.
So we'll go ahead and return empty array right here.
We're going to get the school ID that we're using to look things up with then we're going to go ahead
and return the new promise.
This is all part of the contrived example.
Resolve and reject our two arguments
then right here we're going to go ahead and resolve the filtered grades array that is grades dot filter.
We're going to filter this one by passing and an arrow function it'll get called with the individual
grade not user.
And then we'll go ahead and implicitly return something if we return true it'll be considered a match
and that grade will be resolved.
And if we return false that grade will be removed from the array that gets resolved in this case.
We want to keep the grade if the grade dot school ID equals the school ID that the function was called
with in this case that is it for get grades.
We can go ahead and test it out.
I'm going to call get grades down below instead of get user get a pass in a valid school Id like 101
and instead of user will have grades here and down below if I save this what do we get.
We get an array with two objects.
As expected we have all of the grades for Andrew 86 and 80.
I'm going to go ahead and pass in nine nine nine.
We get Jessica's grades.
And finally 12 that house and 12 we get an empty array which is exactly what I was hoping for.
All right.
Just one more function left then we'll be done with this video and we can move on to the next one.
So in the end of the day this one is going to be called Konst get status and get status is going to
be a function.
And it is going to take the user id so the ID for the user whose status is trying to fetch.
Now the goal of this one is to just return a string along these lines.
Well start off with their name like Andrew and then we'll add a little bit of information.
Andrew has a.
In this case I have an 83 average in that class so I take 80.
I add on 86 I divide it by two to generate that address excuse me that average.
So this is the goal.
We want to resolve this string from get status after we actually run through get user and get grades.
So we're going to go ahead and knock this out real quick then we'll be done.
That means we'll be calling get status with a user ID.
We're going to get the status back and we are going to log the status out now to kick things off.
What do we need to do.
Well first up we have to go ahead and return to keep that promise chain alive because right here we
attach then and catch callbacks.
Next up we'll be calling get user before we can actually use get grades we have to take the user id
find the user object and get their school ID.
And we also want to make sure we have access to the name for the message.
So we need two pieces of information off of that object get user user ID will that are then call back
right here.
We're going to get access to that user object.
And this contains some useful information.
One of those pieces of information is going to allow us to actually call get grades going to return
get grades right here and we're going to pass in the students school I.D. That's user dot school I.
D.
Perfect.
So now that we have get grades called will have access to those grades down below the success callback
for this promise right here we'll get the grades array we can then go ahead and actually create an average
variable which we'll do in a second and then we can return our string.
So that is the goal for this function but this is where we run into one of the first problems you most
likely have seen when working with promises.
We have this promise chain.
We have to have one promise called in order to actually start the other one.
And in the end of the day I want to do something with values from both.
Well we can't we do not have access to user inside of this function.
It was created in another function right here which is a pretty common problem.
We might have run into the same problem in our weather example we're back in the beginning if we structured
things a little differently.
We took an address and we got a latitude and longitude we took it a lot and long and that let us get
the weather.
We had two strings instead of one.
If I wanted one string we would have had the exact same problem we're running into here.
So how do we solve this.
Well there are a few ways we could do that.
And most of them are kind of ugly workarounds right here.
I could make a variable called user and I would set an equal to undefined at first then down below I
would give it a value right here when this function runs.
Now I can have two variables with the same thing.
If I try to type user equals user We're going to run into some problems.
It is going to take this user value and set it equal to this user value.
It's not going to use this at all.
So you have to add another little work around temp user.
Then we're going to go ahead and set user equal to temp user.
And this is going to technically work when I have access to user down here and we can get some stuff
done right here.
We can calculate the average of our average equals zero.
Now we've been using cons throughout the course.
We can actually switch our vars over to let's let is the yes six equivalent to var.
So this is a variable whose value we can change.
Now we're going to start off with an average of 0 and we're going to move on to actually calculating
a better average if there are grades grades dot length if grades length is greater than zero.
Great.
We're going to go ahead and actually run a calculation now.
We're going to use a few array methods here.
First up we're going to set average equal to some value and we're going to kick things off by taking
our array of objects and getting it down to an array of numbers and we'll do that using math.
That's grades dot math here.
We're going to go ahead and get access to the individual grade and we're going to do is implicitly return
grade dot grade.
So we have the individual grade object and we're trying to access it's grade property.
At this point we have an array of numbers we need to turn those numbers into a sum and then we have
to divide that by the length of the array.
And we'll be using reduce on here.
So we're calling reduce on an array of numbers.
Reduce works a little differently than some of the other array methods you might have seen in the past.
This one takes two arguments a and b.
So the first time it goes through it's going to take the first two grades and we'll be able to do something
with those grades.
What we want to do.
We want to return a plus b and then it's going to take that some for the first two grades.
It is going to call the reduce function again putting that some here and putting the third grade here.
So we'll take a plus b to get that value added onto the new B and then we'll continue to generate that
sum.
Now we can actually simplify that a plus b.
Now this alone just gives us the sun.
So in the case of Andrew we haven't calculated the average 83 We've just added up the 2 numbers.
We also want to divide this by grades dot length.
That is what's going to give us the average and we can go ahead and test this out by printing the average
variable Council dot log average.
I'm going to save it right here.
We have get status and we have get status for one that is perfectly fine.
We can continue to use that right here.
We're getting 83 printing which is the correct average.
If I go ahead and rerun it for user to 100 printing everything is working real well.
Undefine is just coming up because we don't have anything returned.
So status equals undefined which prints right here.
So instead of just dumping average to the screen let's go ahead and actually return our template shrink.
This is the final thing we're going to do in this video right here.
We're going to follow this format starting off with the name that is user datt name.
Then we're going to move on to the next part has a followed by their grade.
That's the average will toss the percent sign after it in the class period.
Now that we're returning something this value will be accessible to ever calls get status.
In this case that happens right here right here we see Jessica as 100 percent in the class printing
to the screen.
If I go on to one we see and your has an 83 and if I type in some other I.D. We can see unable to find
a user with the idea of 1 to 3 printing.
So this is it for our contrived starter example.
I know there wasn't a heck of a lot of interesting stuff here but I promise having an example to work
with is going to make understanding a single way.
So so much easier.
So the goal in the next video is to take this and get it down to about three lines of code using this
new syntax.
It's going to be three lines of code that are a whole lot easier to read and work with.
It's going to look like a synchronous code as opposed to callbacks and promise chains.
I am super excited to get to it.
We're going to start that in the next video.
I'll see you then.